Frontend i18n principles (#263)
OsomePteLtd/principles: src/frontend.md

   const documentMutation = usePatchDocument(documentId);
   ```

## I18n

### Translation keys

1. Use `snake_case` for translation keys.

   ```typescript
   // bad
   t('home.helloWorld');

   // good
   t('home.hello_world');
   ```

1. Do not split phrases into several translation keys. Sometimes it's impossible to translate splitted phrase to another language.

   ```typescript
   // bad
   const greeting = t('home.hello') + userName + '!';

   // good

>    const greeting = t('home.hello_user', { userName });

Reviewer: missing placeholder `userName` inside `'home.hello_user'`?

Author: no, but i can add translation key content as a comment

Author: done

   ```

1. Give meaningful names to translation keys. Translation key should shortly describe their purpose of content.

   ```typescript
   // bad

>    t('home.header_title');

Reviewer: bad and good are mixed up by an error or you really mean it?

Author: taken from here: https://www.notion.so/osome/i18n-cf5a8066958b42bcb2748b632b4ab9d1 key naming point 3

Reviewer 2: But `header_title` looks exactly as "purpose of content" :)

Reviewer: OK, there are 2 different rules which balance each other: 1) don't translate literally `You have not created a ticket yet?` to `blank_state_message` and 2) add some context, so use `chose_locale_dropdown` instead of just `dropdown`

Reviewer: let's add 2 separate rules close to each other:

1. Use clear and meaningful key names that succinctly describe their purpose and the value they hold. This is similar to how variables are named in code.

bad: button
good: create_ticket_button

2. Avoid being overly specific and refrain from using translation key values as names. 

bad: you_have_not_created_any_ticket_yet
good: blank_state_text

   // good
   t('home.hello_world');
   ```

1. Do not nest translation keys too deeply, keep 2-3 levels of nesting.

   ```typescript
   // bad
   t('invoices.payable.list.header.title');

   // good
   t('invoices_payable.title_invoices_to_pay');
   ```

1. Do not use dynamic translation keys. We use static tool that prepares translation files for us, and it cannot run code.

   ```typescript
   // bad, should be caught by our custom eslint rule
   const key = isNight ? 'home.good_night' : 'home.good_day';
   const greeting = t(key);

   // good
   const greeting = isNight ? t('home.good_night') : t('home.good_day');
   ```

1. Avoid changing translation keys without changing their content. Changing keys forces our translators to handle translations one more time.

> 1. Use `t()` for translation except of case when you need to interpolate components, in that case use `<Trans />`.

Author: Will elaborate this rule in further PRs. Need to infer some rules of working with `<Trans />`.

### Namespaces

1. Use namespace in translation keys if it's used not in host app. We use shared single i18n instance through host app and microfrontend, and host app is bound to default namespace.

   ```typescript
   // bad, should be caught by our custom eslint rule (if not host app)
   t('home.hello_world');
   // bad
   t('home.hello_world', { ns: 'invoices' });

   // good
   t('invoices:home.hello_world');
   ```

> 1. Use only one namespace per repository. It helps us to work with Lokalise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use only one namespace per repository. It helps us to work with the TMS (Translation Management System).
```

> 1. Name of namespace should be unique through all repositories of Osome. It helps us to avoid translation keys conflict.

Reviewer: please, do not refer to Osome, it's a public repo

   const documentMutation = usePatchDocument(documentId);
   ```

## I18n

### Translation keys

1. Use `snake_case` for translation keys.

   ```typescript
   // bad
   t('home.helloWorld');

   // good
   t('home.hello_world');
   ```

1. Do not split phrases into several translation keys. Sometimes it's impossible to translate splitted phrase to another language.

   ```typescript
   // bad
   const greeting = t('home.hello') + userName + '!';

   // good
   // in translation file: "hello_user": "Hello, {{userName}}!",
   const greeting = t('home.hello_user', { userName });
   ```

1. Give meaningful names to translation keys. Translation key should shortly describe their purpose of content.

   ```typescript
   // bad
   t('home.header_title');

   // good
   t('home.hello_world');
   ```

> 1. Do not nest translation keys too deeply, keep 2-3 levels of nesting.

Reviewer 2: Do we have a rule – how to manage with levels?

`invoices_payable.title_invoices_to_pay` - what is "invoices_payable" here? The name of the component?

Also, please provide a good example with 3 levels.

Author: Updated this rule
